and now it's time for another dice tower
review with tom vasel I really like dice
and I have a lot of different dice but
some of my favorite days that I have are
from iron die these are dice that are
made out of the zinc alloy they look
really cool they they originally made a
game which was an ok game but the dice
were great and they since made other
diesem my favorite dice that I have like
I said are the dice at iron dying banks
and now they've made a game here now
this is a limited edition game my copy
here says 36 out of a hundred so I don't
think there's many of these so I don't
know that everyone's going to be able to
get a copy of this one but it is
interesting to make a game here called
iron crux which uses iron crosses to
make the game and there's the you see a
crusader here holding up one of those
iron crosses on the front of the box
what's the game like let's take a look
all right here's 49 of the crosses pays
place in a for a grid square and there's
four color ones red yellow green and
blue in the corners that game actually
comes with 50 of them the 50th one can
be used if you want to make a grid
that's 5 by 10 they are made of zinc
alloy obviously they're very heavy noisy
loud clinky I'd be very cautious about
playing with them on a wooden table the
box that they come in has these round
holes in it so that you can store them
in it the problem with putting them in
there is it's hard to get them out so
you simply the dump them out again being
careful what table you do that on and
how you dump them out but gameplay
itself you pick one person to go first
and on your turn you'll take your cross
and you move it three spots one two
three and you you'll capture the cross
that you stop on so green Michael one
two three wait one two three red one two
three you can't cross over across you
already gone so you can't do this one
two three stuff the next time that blue
goes let's say blue goes here min green
goes one two three and then white goes
one two three and you pick up the cross
that you're on top of and then blue goes
one two three and green goes one two
three and white goes one two three and
read it goes 1 2 3 and then blue goes 1
2 3 Green goes 1 2 3 white goes 1 2 3
red goes 1 2 3 blue goes Oh blue goes 1
2 3 Green has nowhere to go because you
can't land on top of someone's cross and
you cannot go over these empty spots so
green is out of the game of course you
can see that so is blue next turn white
goes 1 2 3 red goes 1 2 3 white goes 1 2
3 red goes 1 2 3 now when you've
captured 6 like redheads here you get to
take for them and keep going now the
reason you want to capture pieces is
because on your turn if you've nowhere
to go you can
sacrifice three of the pieces that
you've captured and place one on the
board so that maybe you can land on the
spot when it's your turn this will
continue to every player has been
eliminated but one that player is the
winner of the game so this game is going
to be one I think that collectors are
going to hand out because they're only
100 copies and how many people can say
they have a copy of a game with metal
crosses in it the gameplay itself is
very simple um it's you're going to pick
up and move your pieces around and it
plays the rules say two to four but I'm
telling you right now it is a two or
four game three player doesn't work
because the person who is in between the
corners just is a little bit shut out
it's just not very symmetrical at that
point and an abstract strategy game
should be somewhat symmetrical I I think
perfectly symmetrical usually the
component qaulity is high but the
gameplay itself is it's okay now this
isn't the first game actually to use
this method there was a game from out of
the box a long time ago called fish eat
fish which had a very similar mechanism
except you would fight other fish by
playing cards a combat system it's a
great little game this one there's no
cards you just move around to one person
gets stuck to where they're at and
that's okay that's that's one of the
there's something like a list of the ten
different ways you can play an abstract
game somewhere by capturing pieces some
are by controlling parts of the board
this one is one where when you can't
move you lose which is a tenant there
are other abstract games like that when
you can't make a move you're out and
this is one of those the back of the box
says 15 minutes i'm going to say five
minutes unless you're going to sit there
and agonize over your moves it's really
not that difficult a game and it's
really not that interesting of a game
for me I think the concept is a neat
idea and it's okay I can do to pass time
because it's quick and easy but it
almost seems shameful that we use such
great components for a game that's just
not that fantastic so Who am I
recommending as for what collectors who
want this inert and edit and it is it's
something you can pull out and people
will go we went on and look at it and
neatness the gameplay itself though
could it have been done with lesser
components well of course you would add
these tiles and they would have moved
around
these things stack nice and neatly maybe
plastic but I don't know it's it's an
interesting idea and neat collectors
thing but I think for most of you
haunting this down won't be worth your
time thanks so much for watching the
dice tower videos find more great videos
and reviews as well as our top-rated
audio podcast at dice tower calm you can
also find other great shows at dice
tower network com I'm Eric summer and
you've been watching the dice tower the
dice tower is sponsored by cool stuff
Inc where you can find great games for
great prices cool stuff in stock check
them out at cool stuff inc.com shut the
door